[doc] Added MNIST training using KubeRay doc page (#46123)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/examples/mnist-training-example.md

(kuberay-mnist-training-example)=

> # Train a PyTorch Model on Fashion MNIST with CPUs on Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Train a PyTorch model on Fashion MNIST with CPUs on Kubernetes
```

> This example runs distributed training of a PyTorch model on Fashion MNIST with Ray Train. See [Train a PyTorch Model on Fashion MNIST](train-pytorch-fashion-mnist) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example runs distributed training of a PyTorch model on Fashion MNIST with Ray Train. See [Train a PyTorch model on Fashion MNIST](train-pytorch-fashion-mnist) for more details.
```

> This example runs distributed training of a PyTorch model on Fashion MNIST with Ray Train. See [Train a PyTorch Model on Fashion MNIST](../../../train/examples/pytorch/torch_fashion_mnist_example.rst) for more details.

Reviewer 2: `../../../train/examples/pytorch/torch_fashion_mnist_example.rst` => We seldom use relative paths. Would you mind adding a label to `torch_fashion_mnist_example.rst` and referring to the document via the label?

## Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster

This step creates a local Kubernetes cluster using [Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/). If you already have a Kubernetes cluster, you can skip this step.

```sh
kind create cluster --image=kindest/node:v1.26.0
```

## Step 2: Install KubeRay operator

Follow [this document](kuberay-operator-deploy) to install the latest stable KubeRay operator from the Helm repository.

## Step 3: Create a RayJob

> A RayJob consists of a RayCluster custom resource and a job that can be submitted to the RayCluster. With RayJob, KubeRay creates a RayCluster and submits a job when the cluster is ready. Here is a CPU-only RayJob description YAML file for MNIST training on a PyTorch model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A RayJob consists of a RayCluster custom resource and a job that you can submit to the RayCluster. With RayJob, KubeRay creates a RayCluster and submits a job when the cluster is ready. The following is a CPU-only RayJob description YAML file for MNIST training on a PyTorch model.
```

```sh
# Download `ray-job.pytorch-mnist.yaml`
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/kuberay/master/ray-operator/config/samples/pytorch-mnist/ray-job.pytorch-mnist.yaml
```

You might need to adjust some fields in the RayJob description YAML file so that it can run in your environment:

> * `replicas` under `workerGroupSpecs` in `rayClusterSpec`: This field specifies the number of worker Pods that will be scheduled to the Kubernetes cluster. Each worker Pod and the head Pod, as described in the `template` field, require 2 CPUs. A RayJob submitter Pod requires 1 CPU. For example, if your machine has 8 CPUs, the maximum `replicas` value will be 2 to allow all Pods to reach the `Running` status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `replicas` under `workerGroupSpecs` in `rayClusterSpec`: This field specifies the number of worker Pods that KubeRay schedules to the Kubernetes cluster. Each worker Pod and the head Pod, as described in the `template` field, requires 2 CPUs. A RayJob submitter Pod requires 1 CPU. For example, if your machine has 8 CPUs, the maximum `replicas` value is 2 to allow all Pods to reach the `Running` status.
```

> * `NUM_WORKERS` under `runtimeEnvYAML` in `spec`: This field indicates the number of Ray actors to launch (see [Document](../../../train/api/doc/ray.train.ScalingConfig.rst) for more information). Each Ray actor must be served by a worker Pod in the Kubernetes cluster. Therefore, `NUM_WORKERS` must be less than or equal to `replicas`.

Reviewer 2: avoid relative path

```sh

> # `replicas` and `NUM_WORKERS` set to 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `replicas` and `NUM_WORKERS` set to 2.
```

> # Create a RayJob

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create a RayJob.
```

kubectl apply -f ray-job.pytorch-mnist.yaml

> # Check existing Pods: According to `replicas`, there should be 2 worker Pods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check existing Pods: According to `replicas`, there should be 2 worker Pods.
```

> # Make sure all the Pods are in the `Running` status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Make sure all the Pods are in the `Running` status.
```

# pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-worker-small-group-c8bwx   1/1     Running   0          5m32s
# pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-worker-small-group-s7wvm   1/1     Running   0          5m32s
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist-nxmj2                                1/1     Running   0          4m17s
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-head-m4dsl          1/1     Running   0          5m32s
```

Check that the RayJob is in the `RUNNING` status:

```sh
kubectl get rayjob
# NAME                   JOB STATUS   DEPLOYMENT STATUS   START TIME             END TIME   AGE
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist   RUNNING      Running             2024-06-17T04:08:25Z              11m
```

## Step 4: Wait until the RayJob completes and check the training results

Wait until the RayJob completes. It might take several minutes.

```sh
kubectl get rayjob
# NAME                   JOB STATUS   DEPLOYMENT STATUS   START TIME             END TIME               AGE
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist   SUCCEEDED    Complete            2024-06-17T04:08:25Z   2024-06-17T04:22:21Z   16m
```

After seeing `JOB_STATUS` marked as `SUCCEEDED`, you can check the training logs:

```sh

> # Check Pods name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check Pods name.
```

kubectl get pods
# NAME                                                      READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
# kuberay-operator-6dddd689fb-ksmcs                         1/1     Running     0          113m
# pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-worker-small-group-c8bwx   1/1     Running     0          38m
# pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-worker-small-group-s7wvm   1/1     Running     0          38m
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist-nxmj2                                0/1     Completed   0          38m
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-head-m4dsl          1/1     Running     0          38m

> # Check training logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check training logs.
```

# 2024-06-16 22:23:01,844 SUCC cli.py:62 -- -------------------------------------------------------
# ...
# (RayTrainWorker pid=1138, ip=10.244.0.18) 
#   0%|          | 0/26421880 [00:00<?, ?it/s]
# (RayTrainWorker pid=1138, ip=10.244.0.18) 
#   0%|          | 32768/26421880 [00:00<01:27, 301113.97it/s]
# ...
# Training finished iteration 10 at 2024-06-16 22:33:05. Total running time: 7min 9s
# ╭───────────────────────────────╮
# │ Training result               │
# ├───────────────────────────────┤
# │ checkpoint_dir_name           │
# │ time_this_iter_s      28.2635 │
# │ time_total_s          423.388 │
# │ training_iteration         10 │
# │ accuracy               0.8748 │
# │ loss                  0.35477 │
# ╰───────────────────────────────╯

# Training completed after 10 iterations at 2024-06-16 22:33:06. Total running time: 7min 10s

# Training result: Result(
#   metrics={'loss': 0.35476621258825347, 'accuracy': 0.8748},
#   path='/home/ray/ray_results/TorchTrainer_2024-06-16_22-25-55/TorchTrainer_122aa_00000_0_2024-06-16_22-25-55',
#   filesystem='local',
#   checkpoint=None
# )
# ...
```

> ## Clean-up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Clean up
```

> (kuberay-mnist-training-example)=

Reviewer 2: Can you install [Vale](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/docs.html#how-to-use-vale) and ensure there are no Vale warnings?

> (kuberay-mnist-training-example)=

Reviewer 2: I typically use `Pod` instead of `pod` and `YAML` instead of `yaml`.

# Train MNIST on a Neural Network with CPUs on Kubernetes

This guide runs a sample Ray Train workload with CPUs on Kubernetes infrastructure.

> ## Step 1: Install KubeRay operator

Author: There are instructions to create `Kind` cluster in the link in line 8 ([RayCluster QuickStart](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/cluster/kubernetes/getting-started/raycluster-quick-start.html)). Therefore, I think we don't have to repeat them here?

Follow [this document](kuberay-operator-deploy) to install the latest stable KubeRay operator from the Helm repository. After installation, you should see the operator running:

```sh
# Confirm that the operator is running in the namespace `default`.
kubectl get pods
# NAME                                                      READY   STATUS              RESTARTS   AGE
# kuberay-operator-6dddd689fb-ksmcs                         1/1     Running             0          48s
```

## Step 2: Create a RayJob

> A RayJob consists of a RayCluster custom resource and a job that can be submitted to the RayCluster. With RayJob, KubeRay creates a RayCluster and submit a job when the cluster is ready. Here, we provide a CPU-only RayJob description yaml file for the MNIST training on a Neural Network.

Reviewer 2: Please use ChatGPT to check grammar correctness.

```sh
# Download `ray-job.pytorch-mnist.yaml`

> curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/kuberay/v1.0.0/ray-operator/config/samples/pytorch-mnist/ray-job.pytorch-mnist.yaml

Reviewer 2: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/kuberay/v1.0.0/ray-operator/config/samples/pytorch-mnist/ray-job.pytorch-mnist.yaml is 404 not found.

Author: Solved

# Create a RayJob
kubectl apply -f ray-job.pytorch-mnist.yaml
```

> Feel free to adjust the `NUM_WORKERS` field and the `replicas` field under `workerGroupSpecs` in `rayClusterSpec` in the yaml file such that all the worker pods can reach `Running` status.

Reviewer 2: Can you add some sentences talk about `NUM_WORKERS` (https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/train/api/doc/ray.train.ScalingConfig.html)?

> ```sh

Reviewer 2: Can you explain why the RayCluster looks like this? What is the expected state of the RayCluster based on the YAML configuration (e.g., `replicas`)?

# `replicas` and `NUM_WORKERS` set to 2
kubectl get pods
# NAME                                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
# kuberay-operator-6dddd689fb-ksmcs                         1/1     Running   0          6m8s
# pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-worker-small-group-c8bwx   1/1     Running   0          5m32s
# pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-worker-small-group-s7wvm   1/1     Running   0          5m32s
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist-nxmj2                                1/1     Running   0          4m17s
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist-raycluster-rkdmq-head-m4dsl          1/1     Running   0          5m32s
```

> Check that the job is in the `RUNNING` status:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check that the RayJob is in the `RUNNING` status:
```

```sh
kubectl get rayjob
# NAME                   JOB STATUS   DEPLOYMENT STATUS   START TIME             END TIME   AGE
# rayjob-pytorch-mnist   RUNNING      Running             2024-06-17T04:08:25Z              11m
```

> ## Step 3: Wait until the job is completed and check the training results

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Wait until the RayJob is completed and check the training results
```

> Wait until the job is completed. It might take several minutes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wait until the RayJob is completed. It might take several minutes.
```
